# Python Order Management System

 - **1.**[Introduction](#introduction) 
 - **2.** [Context Diagram](#context) 
 - **3.** [User Stories](#stories) 
 - **4.** [Project Plan](#plan) 
 -  **5.** [System Class Diagram](#sys_diagram)
	 - 5.1 [Classes in the OMS](#oms_classes) 
	 - 5.2  [Conceptual Class Diagram of the OMS](#oms_conceptual)
	 - 5.3 	[Bottom-up approach to development](#oms_bottomup)
 -   **6.** [Object-Orientation in OMS](#oms_object)
 -  **7.** [Input Validation in the User Interface class](#input_val)
## Rubric + Mark Distribution
You must design, implement, debug, test and document an Object-Oriented System. The implementation must be done in Python. You are required to work in groups of three students. If any student does not have a group, your teacher will assign the student to a group of his choice. You are required to submit both the source code and an MS Word documentation file. The minimum requirements of the system and its documentation are:

**1.**	An introduction to the system: This must also include the challenges and a hint of how you would solve them. (3 marks) 
**2.**	A high-level context diagram: This must identify the external entities and the input and output interactions between the system and the external entities. (2 marks)
**3.**	A list of user stories. (3 marks)
**4.**	A project management plan: This should include time in terms of weeks and tasks to be accomplished each week. It should also include who is responsible for each task. (3 marks)
**5.**	A UML class diagram of the system must include client-facing classes (namely UI classes) and application logic classes. The application logic classes must be separate from the UI classes. You may either use GUI or textual UI. The class diagram should only include the class's attributes and the method signatures. The data types of the attributes and the parameters should be specified.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (10 marks)
**6.**	At least one level of OO inheritance in the project: Identify parent-child class relationships wherever possible. The relationships should be visible in the class diagram. (4 marks)
**7.**	All user interface classes should have input data validation logic. Ensure runtime exceptions are handled graciously. Meaningful feedback should be provided to the user, especially in case of input errors or run-time errors. (10 marks)
**8.**	All output generated by the system should be formatted so that it is easy to read with liberal use of white spaces to group related information. (5 marks)
**9.**	A data dictionary table for all attributes in each application logic class. This table should contain the desired columns for data type/data structure, validation, example, description, etc. (10 marks)
**10.**	File handling logic: Your code should be able to store, retrieve and update the data in a file. The file format should also be provided in the documentation. (10 marks)
**11.**	The pseudocode or flowchart of at least three complex methods in the application logic component or the file handling component. (7 marks)
**12.**	Sorting logic: Your code should use at least one of the following sorting algorithms: bubble, selection, insertion, merge.  (3 marks)
**13.**	Specify how you handled message-passing between objects. This is usually done using Sequence Diagrams in UML, but your syllabus is silent, so you may describe it in a textual manner. At least one example of an abstract method or one instance of polymorphic behaviour should be included in the project.                                                                                                                                   (7 marks)
**14.**	You must document how the source code files are organised using modules and provide documentation for most phases of the Software Development Life Cycle. This may also include documentation on how to install your program from GitHub. Ensure your code has no absolute addressing (path) issues so it can be installed without changing any code.                                                 (4 marks)
**15.**	Each user story should have a test data table and an Input Output (IO) table. The test data table should include data for testing: valid input, invalid input, and boundary values. The IO table should consist of rows of data in the test data table, and each row entry should have a column for test data and a column for expected output. Unit tests should be conducted to verify that the actual output is the same as the expected output. If not, the logic should be fixed.                                                                                            (10 marks)
**16.**	You should use a version control system like GitHub to share the code and the documentation with your teammates and teachers.                                                                                                                                                           (1 marks)
**17.**	The complete source code should be added as an appendix to the documentation. The source code should have intrinsic documentation. This involves using meaningful variable/method names and documentation of the APIs of each method (specify what it does, the parameters (if any) and its type and the return value (if any). (3 marks)
**18.**	Your project should be syntax-free, logical error-free and run-time error-free. This must be demonstrated on an ongoing basis and at least one day before the last date of submission.                                                                                                                                             (5 marks)

**Note: A partial documentation of a partially completed project for an Order Management System is provided below. Your team may extend this project or develop a new project of your choice with the same level of complexity. In any case, each team should seek the teacher’s approval for the type of extension you want to add before proceeding with your project. You may adapt the documentation given here instead of writing everything from scratch.**

## 1. Introduction<a name="intro"></a>
Order management systems are frequently used in most e-commerce businesses. Some of the challenges of such systems are relating an order with a customer, identifying items in an order, deleting an item before an order is finalised, creating one of more types of order (e.g. regular order, postal order), updating an order, searching for an order in a list of orders, sorting an order, tracking the status of an order, storing and retrieving orders from a file, etc. In this project, a simple order management system will be designed and developed using Python as the implementation language. The project will be created from a user interface perspective, business logic perspective and file handling perspective. Hence, the project comprises three components: UI Component, Application Logic Component and File-Handling Component. This separation of concerns will help better maintain the delivered project since, in the real world, an end user’s interface can be from various devices or platforms. However, the back-end application logic service is delivered via a common platform. Similarly, file handling services can differ due to the many database systems, such as MySQL and Oracle. In this project, database systems will not be used since they are out of the scope of the syllabus. Instead, file handling will be used. An overview of the architecture is shown in Figure 1.



*Figure 1: Overview of the architecture*
An IS project has to follow the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases. This project starts with the requirements phase of the SDLC, where an overview of the external actors and their interactions with the system is first identified using a context diagram (section 2). This is followed by the definition of user stories (section 3). In the planning phase of the SDLC, a project plan is drawn to estimate the effort required in terms of time and roles for the development team (section 4). In the analysis phase of the SDLC, abstraction principles are used to identify likely classes in the OMS (section 5). As part of the SDLC’s design phase, the details of how the inheritance principle in OOP is applied in this project are discussed in section 6. A discussion on how input data is validated is considered in section 7. The output generated by the system needs to be formatted. This is discussed in section 8. The data type and structure of the attributes in each class are considered in the discussion of the data dictionary (section 9). The design of file-handling algorithms is considered in section 10. The design of complex algorithms in the application logic component is considered in sections 11 (pseudocode) and 12 (sorting and searching). The modelling of the system's dynamic behaviour is considered in section 13. 

## 2. Context Diagram<a name="context"></a>
## 3. User Stories<a name="stories"></a>
## 4. Project Plan<a name="plan"></a>
## 5. System Class Diagram<a name="sys_diagram"></a>
### 5.1 Classes in the OMS<a name="oms_classes"></a>
### 5.2 Conceptual Class Diagram of the OMS<a name="oms_conceptual"></a>
### 5.3 Bottom-up approach to development<a name="oms_bottomup"></a>
## 6. Object-Orientation in OMS<a name="oms_object"></a>
## 7. Input Validation in the User Interface<a name="input_val"></a>
## 8. Formatted Output<a name="format_o"></a>
## 9. Data Dictionary<a name="data_dict"></a>
## 10. File Handling<a name="file_hand"></a>
## 11. Pseudocode<a name="pseudo"></a>
## 12. Sorting and Searching<a name="s_and_s"></a>
## 13. Messaging (modelling dynamic behaviour) in an Object-Oriented system<a name="messaging"></a>
### 13.1 Polymorphism in the OSM<a name="polymorph"></a>
## 14. Code optimisation techniques for better collaboration and maintenance<a name="optimisation"></a>
### 14.1 Intrinsic and extrinsic documentation<a name="docs"></a>
### 14.2 Organization of source code files and modules<a name="src_org"></a>
## 15. Testing and Quality Assurance<a name="test_quality"></a>
### 15.1 Black box testing of OMS<a name="black_box"></a>
### 15.1.1 Test Cases<a name="test_cases"></a>
### 15.1.2 Input-Output table for testing<a name="io_table"></a>
### 15.2 White box testing of OMS<a name="white_box"></a>


> Written with [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/).
